Alienist
An Alienist seeks to master the mysteries of the mind. Having devoted
years to studying the inner workings of the brain, and unlocking
its latent potential, an Alienist is able to read and manipulate the
thoughts of others, and bend reality itself. They tap into unfathomable
realities and shift the world to their will using the psychic energies they
call upon from eldritch lore and arcane knowledge.
Advanced Psychology
1st-level Alienist feature
You learn the eldritch blast cantrip. You gain proficiency in
the Arcana skill. If you already have this proficiency, you gain
proficiency with another skill of your choice.
Alienist Spells
1st-level Alienist feature
You always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular
levels in this class, as shown in the Alienist Spells table. These
spells count as apothecary spells for you, but they don’t count
against the number of apothecary spells you prepare.
Alienist Spells
Apothecary Level Spell
1st charm person, hideous laughter
3rd detect thoughts, suggestion
5th hypnotic pattern, major image
7th arcane eye, dimension door
9th animate objects, modify memory
Mental Influence
3rd-level Alienist Feature
You have studied hard to unlock the deepest recesses of your
psyche, unleashing untapped psychic potential within yourself.
This energy is represented by a pool of Psychic Points. You have
four psychic points. You gain two more at 6th level, another two
at 10th, and two more again at 14th level, which you can expend to use the various psionic powers you have detailed below.
If you have expended all your Psychic Points, you cannot use
these powers. You regain all your expended Psychic Points when
you finish a short or long rest.
h Cerebral Breakthrough. When you cast an apothecary
spell that deals damage, you can expend a Psychic Point to
re-roll any number of the dice. You must use the new rolls.
h Mind Over Matter. Whenever you take damage, you can
use your reaction and expend a Psychic Point, reducing the
damage taken by an amount equal to your apothecary level.
h Mind Whisperer. When you cast an apothecary spell which
does not deal damage, you may spend a psychic point to cast
it without any somatic or verbal components.
Metaphysical Tether
3rd-level Alienist feature
As an action, you can touch a willing creature to create a psychic link with it which lasts a number of hours equal to your
Apothecary level or until you end the link (no action required).
The maximum number of links you can have at any time is
equal to your proficiency bonus. All the creatures tethered in
this way can communicate telepathically with one another as
long as they are within 100 feet of each other.
Chapter 3: Drakkenheim Characters 141
Force Manipulation
6th-level Alienist feature
Your mental prowess allows you to control the very fabric of
your own reality around you, allowing you to defy gravity and
push yourself through the air using only your mind. As a bonus
action, you can expend. a psychic point to give yourself a
flying speed equal to your walking speed for 1 minute, during
which you can hover.
Mental Magic
10th-level Alienist feature
You gain new ways to use your latent psychic powers to manipulate the essence of your spells and spellcasting. You gain three
new ways to use your Psychic Points:
h Prescribed Effects. Once per turn when a target you can see
within 30 feet of you succeeds on an Intelligence, Wisdom, or
Charisma saving throw against a spell you cast, you can expend
a Psychic Point to fill its mind with scrambled psionic energy,
forcing it to reroll the d20 and use the lower roll for its saving
throw, possibly turning a success into a failure.
h Mentally Prepared. Once per turn, when a target you can
see within 30 feet of you, including yourself, fails an Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma saving throw, you can use a Psychic Point and add your Intelligence modifier to the creature’s
saving throw, potentially turning the failure into a success.
h Fight or Flight Response. As a bonus action, you
can expend a Psychic Point and teleport up to 30 feet to
an unoccupied space you can see. You immediately gain
temporary hit points equal to twice your intelligence modifier.
Self-Diagnosis
14th-level Alienist feature
If you have no Psychic Points remaining, you can use an bonus
action and expend a spell slot to regain 1d4 Psychic Points.
You also gain two additional psychic features:
h Careful Examination. Whenever you cast a spell which
restores hit points to a creature, you may expend a Psychic Point.
If you do, all creatures targeted by the spell regain an additional
amount of hit points equal to twice your Intelligence modifier.
h Enhanced Cerebellum. When you cast any spell of 1st
level or higher from your Alienist Spells feature, you can
cast it by expending a spell slot as normal or by spending a
number of psychic points equal to the spell’s level.
Impenetrable Mind
18th-level Alienist feature
You are resistant to psychic damage and immune to being
charmed or frightened. Magic cannot put you to sleep and you
have advantage on saving throws against spells that attempt
to read your thoughts or control your mind or actions, such as
dominate person. Additionally, when you use the Self-Diagnosis
feature to regain Psychic Points using a spell slot, you now
regain Psychic Points equal to the spell’s level.