Chemist
A Chemist is a studied scientist whose advanced research in to
chemical compounds has granted them the ability to terrorize their
enemies with alchemical explosions, devastating gasses, and other
horrific concoctions. Chemists love testing their new compounds in
the field, and are always keen to advance their study and research
further, finding new combinations to combust their foes with.
Chemical Compound
1st-level Chemist feature
You gain proficiency in alchemist’s supplies if you do not already
have it. You also learn the firebolt cantrip and one additional
evocation cantrip of your choice from the wizard spell list. These
cantrips count as apothecary cantrips for you, but do not count
against your cantrips known.
Chemist Spells
1st-level Chemist feature
You always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular
levels in this class, as shown in the Chemist Spells table. These
spells count as apothecary spells for you, but they don’t count
against the number of apothecary spells you prepare.
Chemist Spells
Apothecary Level Spell
1st burning hands, grease
3rd acid arrow, flaming sphere
5th fireball, stinking cloud
7th ice storm, wall of fire
9th cloudkill, cone of cold
142 Guide to Drakkenheim
Precise Application
3rd-level Chemist feature
When you cast a spell that deals acid, cold, fire, lightning, or
poison damage to other creatures that you can see, you can
choose a number of them equal to your Intelligence modifier.
The chosen creatures automatically succeed on their saving
throws against the spell, and they take no damage if they would
normally take half damage on a successful save.
Chain Reaction
6th-level Chemist feature
When you cast an apothecary cantrip that normally targets
only one creature and deals acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison
damage, the spell can instead target two creatures that are
within the spell’s range.
Chemical Conditioning
6th-level Chemist feature
As an action, you give one creature you touch (including possibly yourself) resistance to acid, cold, fire, lightning, or poison
damage for 1 hour. This benefit ends immediately if you use this
feature again.
Bottled Spells
10th-level Chemist feature
You can store a spell from your Chemist Spells feature as a liquid
in a small vial or bottle you touch when you cast the spell. The spell
has no effect other than to be stored in the bottle. The spell
remains stored inside until a creature opens the bottle. Once you
use this feature, any unused bottled spell you previously created
becomes inert, and you can’t bottle another spell until you finish
a short rest. Any creature holding the bottle may spend an action
to open it and cast the spell inside. The spell uses your spell attack
bonus and save DC, but the spell treats the creature who released
it as the caster in all other respects.
Elemental Adjustment
14th-level Chemist feature
When you cast a spell using an apothecary spell slot which deals
a type of damage from the following list, you can change that
damage type to one of the other listed types: acid, cold, fire,
lightning, or poison.
Chemical Cataclysm
18th-level Chemist feature
When you cast a spell that deals acid, cold, fire, lighting, or
poison damage using an apothecary spell slot, it is treated as if it
was cast using a 7th-level spell slot.