Exorcist
An Exorcist comes prepared to deal with evil entities, sinister
spirits, and fearsome fiends. Equipped with their holy symbol, a
book of prayers, and a bag of ritualistic baubles, they stand ready
to face the most unnatural and otherworldly entities of the realms.
An Exorcist is accustomed to facing down insurmountable threats,
with a holy symbol in hand they fear nothing, and stand as a
shield between the realms of men, and those of monsters.
Spiritual Study
1st-level Exorcist feature
You gain proficiency in heavy armor and the Religion Skill. If you
already have this proficiency, you gain proficiency with another
skill of your choice. You can use a holy symbol as an arcane focus
for your apothecary spells and you gain a cantrip of your choice
from the cleric spell list. This cantrip counts as an apothecary
cantrip for you.
Exorcist Spells
1st-level Exorcist feature
You always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular levels in this class, as shown in the Exorcist Spells table.
These spells count as apothecary spells for you, but they don’t
count against the number of apothecary spells you prepare.

Exorcist Spells
Apothecary Level Spell
1st bless, protection from evil and good
3rd spiritual weapon, zone of truth
5th counterspell, spirit guardians
7th banishment, last rites*
9th dispel evil and good, flame strike

Exorcism
3rd-level Exorcist feature
At 3rd level you gain the ability to imbue divine energy through
your holy symbol to expel evil entities in the area, or purge their
harmful effects from your allies.
When you use this feature, you choose which effect to create.
You can use this feature a number of times equal to half your
proficiency bonus rounded down, you regain all expended uses
on a short or long rest.
If an Exorcism effect requires a saving throw, the DC equals
your Apothecary spell save DC.
Starting at 5th level, when an undead or fiend fails its saving
throw against your Expel Evil feature, that creature suffers 4d8
radiant damage.
Expel Evil. As an action, you present your holy symbol and
speak a prayer censuring creatures that mean you harm. Each
Chapter 3: Drakkenheim Characters 143
undead, celestial, fey, or fiend that can see or hear you within 30
feet of you must make a Wisdom saving throw. If the creature
fails its saving throw, it is turned for 1 minute or until it takes
any damage.
A turned creature must spend its turns trying to move as far
away from you as it can, and it can’t willingly move to a space
within 30 feet of you. It also can’t take reactions. For its action,
it can use only the Dash action or try to escape from an effect
that prevents it from moving. If there’s nowhere to move, the
creature can use the Dodge action.
Purge Corruption. You touch a creature or item and can
end either one condition afflicting it. The condition can be
blinded, charmed, deafened, frightened, paralyzed, or poisoned.
Additionally, if a creature is possessed or mind controlled by
a spirit or foreign entity, you can use this feature to remove any
traits or other features related to the possession. If possessed, the
creature possessing it is shunted out of its host to an unoccupied
space within 5 feet and takes psychic damage equal to 2d8 +
your apothecary level.
Sacred Vessel
6th-level Exorcist feature
You are immune to the frightened condition, and cannot be
possessed or cursed. You also have advantage on saving throws
against being charmed.
Negation
10th-level Exorcist feature
As a reaction when a hostile creature you can see targets an ally
with an attack, spell, or other effect, you can expend an Apothecary spell slot to force it to make a Charisma saving throw
against your spell save DC. On a failure, the action they were
attempting fails and resources used are wasted.
Empowered Healing
14th-level Exorcist feature
Whenever you cast a spell that heals a creature, that spell
deals maximum healing and the creature immediately gains
temporary hit points equal to your apothecary level.
Devout Witness
18th-level Exorcist feature
As a Devout Witness, you speak on behalf of your gods and
can feel their powers surging through you. Commanding spirits
and vanquishing evil is second nature to you. You have added
benefits that bolster your abilities.
h Creatures who fail their saving throws against your Exorcism:
Expel Evil feature take an additional 4d8 radiant damage.
h Creatures who are aided by your Exorcism: Purge Corruption
feature gain 4d8 temporary hit points.