Path of the Haze Rager
The first warriors who ventured into Drakkenheim were doomed.
Few returned from these early expeditions, and those few who
survived were forever changed by the experience. A rare few wrestle
the madness of the Haze through a supernatural rage which allows
them to channel the eldritch energies of delerium. These Haze
Ragers thrive on the contaminated power of delerium, transforming
madness and fear into a weapon. Their practice has given them
unnatural tolerance for contamination, and some have told legends
of these barbarians surviving even the most horrific mutations.
Contaminated Fury
3rd-level Haze Rager feature
Starting when you choose this path at 3rd level, you can channel
contaminated fury into your weapon strikes. Once per turn while
you are raging, you can deal an extra 1d8 necrotic damage to a
target you hit with one of your weapon attacks unarmed strikes.
This extra damage increases at 2d8 when you reach 10th level,
and to 3d8 when you reach 14th level.
In addition, you can draw contamination into yourself to empower your melee weapon attacks further. When you hit a creature with a melee weapon attack, you can choose to give yourself
one or more levels of contamination to deal necrotic damage to
the target, in addition to the weapon’s damage. The extra damage
is 2d8 for each level of contamination you choose to gain.
Inured to Corruption
3rd-level Haze Rager feature
If a spell, such as purge contamination, has the sole effect of
removing Contamination Levels from you, the caster doesn’t
need material components to cast the spell on you. In addition,
if the spell would normally cause you to gain exhaustion, you
don’t gain exhaustion from the spell.
Octarine Blood
6th-level Haze Rager feature
You gain resistance to necrotic, poison, psychic, and radiant
damage, and your hit point maximum can’t be reduced.
Already a Monster
6th-level Haze Rager feature
While you are raging, you ignore the Symptoms of any
Contamination Levels you have gained, except for a
Monstrous Transformation.
Whenever you would suffer a Mutation from contamination,
you can roll twice and choose which Mutation you gain.
Consume Corruption
10th-level Haze Rager feature
You gain the ability to cast the purge contamination spell. You can
do so a number of times per day equal to your proficiency bonus.
You do not need material components when casting the spell in
this way. You can’t use this ability on yourself.
Voices In Your Head
10th-level Haze Rager feature
Once per day you can cast the contact other plane spell. If you
fail the Intelligence saving throw, you can choose to gain one
Contamination Level instead of being driven mad.
One with the Mists
14th-level Haze Rager feature
You can cast gaseous form on yourself. You can do so a number
of times equal to your proficiency bonus. You regain all expended uses of this feature when you finish a long rest.
Breath of the Haze
14th-level Haze Rager feature
When you enter your rage, you surround the area around
yourself with a manifestation of the Haze filled with maddening whispers. Mists swirl about you in a 15-foot-radius sphere
centered on you, which moves with you. The area within the
mists is lightly obscured. Creatures who begin their turn in the
mists must make an Intelligence saving throw. The save DC
equals 8 + your proficiency bonus + your Constitution modifier. A creature who fails this saving throw takes 3d8 psychic
damage and has its speed halved. Additionally, they cannot
take reactions until the start of their next turn. When you
manifest the mists, you can designate any number of creatures
you can see to be unaffected.