Pathogenist
The study of diseases opens doorways to many dangerous scientific
discoveries. As experts in both ridding the body of sickness and the
mutations of infectious disease, Pathogenists bring their study to
the battlefield by using monsters and enemies as test subjects for
their infections. Long years spent carefully monitoring the causes
and effects of such plagues allows them to be experts at disease
mutation, allowing their sickness to spread in a terrifying manner
and riddle their foes with debilitating symptoms, crippling their
bodies and rattling their minds.
Plague Proficiency
1st-level Pathogenist feature
You learn the chill touch cantrip. You gain proficiency with the
herbalism kit. If you already have this proficiency, you gain
proficiency with one other type of artisan’s tools of your choice.
Pathogenist Spells
1st-level Pathogenist feature
You always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular levels in this class, as shown in the Pathogenist Spells table.
These spells count as apothecary spells for you, but they don’t
count against the number of apothecary spells you prepare.
Pathogenist Spells
Apothecary Level Spell
1st infect*, inflict wounds
3rd blindness/deafness, biohazard*
5th pestilence*, venomous aura*
7th blight, blood worm*
9th contagion, insect plague
Pernicious Pathogens
3rd-level Pathogenist feature
Whenever a creature casts a spell or uses a trait or feature that
would cure or remove one of your diseases (such as casting
lesser restoration to remove your infect* spell), the creature must
first make an ability check using its spellcasting ability (or its
Charisma modifier, if the spell or special ability does not specify
a spellcasting ability score). The DC equals your spell save DC.
On a failed check, the creature’s spell, trait, or feature fails and
has no effect. Any material components used are expended, and
any spell slot expended is wasted.
Mutant Strain
3rd-level Pathogenist feature
You can evolve your diseases to cause new symptoms. You learn
two mutant strains of your choice, and each time you gain a
level in this class, you can replace one mutant strain you know
with a different one from this feature. When you reach certain
levels in this class, you learn additional mutant strains, as shown
in the Mutant Strains Known table.
Mutant Strains Known
Apothecary Level Number of Strains
3rd 2
9th 3
15th 4
Whenever you cast a spell which inflicts diseases (such as infect*
or contagion) you can apply an additional effect from your
mutant strain to one of the targets of the spell, which lasts for
the duration of that spell.
The following mutant strains are available to you when you
learn a mutant strain. If a strain has a level requirement, you
must be at least that level in this class to learn the strain.
146 Guide to Drakkenheim
h Dizziness. The target can’t take reactions.
h Fatigue. Each time the target fails a saving throw against
your disease, its speed is reduced to five feet until the start
of its next turn.
h Coughing Fits. At the start of each of the target’s turns, it must
make a Constitution saving throw against your spell save DC. On
a failed save, it is unable to speak until the start of its next turn.
h Shivers. The target shakes uncontrollably. At the start of each
of the target’s turns, it drops whatever it is holding in its hands.
h Weakness (9th level). The target deals half damage with
melee weapon attacks.
h Dry Eyes (9th level). Each time the target fails a saving
throw against your disease, it becomes blinded until the start
of its next turn.
h Intense Fever (9th level). The target can’t regain hit points.
h Lesions (9th level). The target loses any damage resistances.
h Nausea (15th level). Each time a target fails a saving
throw against your disease, it becomes incapacitated until
the start of its next turn.
h Dystrophy (15th level). The target becomes vulnerable to
bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage.
Breakthrough Infection
6th-level Pathogenist feature
When you cast a spell using an apothecary spell slot or your
Greater Formula feature that causes disease, that spell ignores
any creature’s immunity to disease. Such creatures instead make
any saving throws against your diseases with advantage.
Outbreak
6th-level Pathogenist feature
When a creature infected by one of your diseases dies, you can
use your reaction to spread the disease to a different creature
you can see within 30 feet of that creature.
Insidious Incubation
10th-level Pathogenist feature
When you start casting infect*, you can modify it so that it
doesn’t require concentration. If you do so, the spell’s duration
becomes 1 minute for that casting. You must finish a short or
long rest before using this feature again.
Immunocompromised
14th-level Pathogenist feature
A creature infected with one of your diseases (such as infect*
or contagion) has disadvantage on saving throws against your
apothecary spells.
Rapid Evolution
18th-level Pathogenist feature
Whenever you cast a spell which inflicts diseases, you can apply
an two additional effects from your mutant strain to one of the
targets of the spell, instead of one.