Reanimator
A Reanimator is the master of life and death. Years spent perfecting
their formula to bring the recently dead back, or to construct new
life out of discarded flesh and patchwork anatomy, have left most
Reanimators in a state constantly riding the lines between genius
and madness. A Reanimator’s skills at clutching life from the jaws
of death make them exquisitely suited for dealing with death, and
undeath. Their mad genius is presented with the construction of a
creature made from the scrap body parts left behind by their enemies
which storms forward into battle on their command.
Spark of Life
1st-level Reanimator feature
You learn the shocking grasp and spare the dying cantrips. These
count as apothecary spells for you, and don’t count against the
number of apothecary cantrips you know.
Reanimator Spells
1st-level Reanimator feature
You always have certain spells prepared after you reach particular levels in this class, as shown in the Reanimator Spells table.
These spells count as apothecary spells for you, but they don’t
count against the number of apothecary spells you prepare.
Reanimator Spells
Apothecary Level Spell
1st false life, inflict wounds
3rd gentle repose, invigorate*
5th lightning bolt, revivify
7th death ward, corpse explosion*
9th raise dead, nerve gas*
Chapter 3: Drakkenheim Characters 147
Corpsewrought Creature
3rd-level Reanimator feature
You have constructed a companion from scavenged body parts
and brought it to life with your occult magic: a corpsewrought
creature. The creature is friendly to you and your companions,
and it obeys your commands. See its game statistics in the accompanying Corpsewrought Creature stat block, which uses your
proficiency bonus (PB) in several places. You can determine the
cosmetic characteristics of the creature; your choice has no effect
on its game statistics.
In combat, the creature shares your initiative count, but it
takes its turn immediately after yours. It can move and use its
reaction on its own, but the only action it takes on its turn is the
Dodge action, unless you take a bonus action on your turn to
command it to take another action. That action can be one in
its stat block or some other action. If you are incapacitated, the
creature can take any action of its choice, not just Dodge.
If your corpsewrought creature has died within the last hour,
you can use your healer’s kit as an action to revive it, provided
you are within 5 feet of it and you expend an apothecary spell
slot. The corpsewrought companion returns to life after 1
minute with all its hit points restored.
At the end of a long rest, you can create a new corpsewrought
creature if you have your healer’s kit with you and access to
suitable “materials.” If you already have a corpsewrought
creature from this feature, the first one immediately perishes.
The creature also perishes if you die.
Bodyguard
6th-level Reanimator feature
When a creature within 5 feet of your corpsewrought creature
makes an attack against you, it can use its reaction to make a
melee weapon attack against the attacking creature. In addition,
your corpsewrought creature’s slam attack counts as magical
for the purposes of overcoming resistance and immunity to
nonmagical attacks and damage.
In addition, you can cast animate dead once using an
Apothecary spell slot. Once you do, you can’t cast the spell
again until you finish a long rest.
Reanimated Head
6th-level Reanimator feature
You have reanimated the head of a dead humanoid creature
which now serves you in your studies. You may use the head as
a spellcasting focus. The head speaks common and one other
language of your choice.
Whenever you make an Intelligence ability check that lets
you add your proficiency bonus, you can treat a d20 roll of 9 or
lower as a 10. Additionally, you gain proficiency in the Arcana
and Investigation skills.
You can use the head to cast speak with dead without
expending a spell slot. Once you use this feature you can’t do so
again until you finish a short or long rest.
Behold, My Creation
10th-level Reanimator feature
Your corpsewrought creature’s size increases to Large, and its
speed increases to 40 feet.
When your corpsewrought creature hits a creature with
a melee attack, it can immediately make a grapple attempt
against the target. The DC to escape this grapple is equal to 8 +
the corpsewrought creature’s strength modifier (+4) + your PB.
Berserk Fury
14th-level Reanimator feature
When you command your corpsewrought creature to take the
Attack action, the creature can make two attacks.
I Can’t Stop The Monster I Created
18th-level Reanimator feature
Your corpsewrought creature increases in size to Huge, gains
a reach of 10 feet, and its speed increases to 50 feet. Its slam
attack deals an additional 1d8 bludgeoning damage.
Additionally, the weight your corpsewrought creature can
push or lift is doubled



Corpsewrought Creature
Medium construct
Armor Class 14 + PB
Hit Points 5 + five times your apothecary level (the creature has a
number of hit dice [d12s] equal to your apothecary level)
Speed 30 feet
STR DEX CON INT WIS CHA
18 (+4) 10 (+0) 16 (+3) 8 (-1) 12 (+1) 8 (-1)
Saving Throws Con +3 plus PB, Wis +1 plus PB
Skills Athletics +4 plus PB
Damage Immunities poison, lightning
Condition Immunities poisoned
Senses darkvision 60 ft, passive Perception 11
Languages understands the languages of its creator but
cannot speak
Challenge –
Proficiency Bonus equals your proficiency bonus
Lightning Absorption. Whenever the corpsewrought creature is
subjected to lightning damage, it takes no damage and regains a
number of hit points equal to the lightning damage dealt.
Actions
Slam. Melee Weapon Attack: +4 plus PB to hit, reach 5 ft., one target.
Hit: 1d8 + 4 bludgeoning damage.