Rogue Archetype

Misfortune Bringer
You’ve matched your penchant for illicit activities
with the ability to mark your enemies for mishaps and
misfortune. Whether your mother was a hag, you were
imbued with magical powers by spending time among
the fey, or you learned the art of cursing from a long
line of hedge wizards before you, you are a Misfortune
Bringer. Although not universal, many Misfortune
Bringers have eyes of two different colors, using only
one when glaring at the targets they intend to curse.

Evil Eye
When you choose this archetype at 3rd level, you gain
the ability to place a minor curse on others with a glance.
As a bonus action on your turn, choose a creature you
can see within 60 feet. The chosen creature must succeed
on a Charisma saving throw against your misfortune
save DC or be marked by your evil eye. While a
creature is marked by your evil eye, you can use your
Sneak Attack against the creature even if you don’t
have advantage on the attack roll, but not if you have
disadvantage on it.
The creature remains marked by your evil eye for 1
minute or until you mark a different creature with your
evil eye, whichever comes first

Misfortunist
Also at 3rd level, you learn misfortunes that you can
inflict on those marked by your evil eye.
Misfortunes. You learn two misfortunes of your
choice, which are detailed under “Misfortunes” below.
You learn an additional misfortune of your choice at 9th,
13th, and 17th level. Each time you finish a long rest, you
can replace one misfortune you know with a different one.
Jinx Points. You have three jinx points. When you
spend a jinx point, it is no longer available to you until
you regain it. You regain all spent jinx points when you
finish a short or long rest.
You gain two additional jinx points at 13th level.
Saving Throws. Your evil eye, and some of your
misfortunes, require your target to make a saving throw
to resist their effects. The saving throw DC is calculated
as follows:
Misfortune save DC = 8 + your proficiency bonus +
your Charisma modifier

Steal Luck
Starting at 9th level, when a creature you can see within
30 feet of you makes an ability check, attack roll, or saving
throw with advantage, you can use your reaction to
remove advantage from the roll. When you do, you regain
an expended jinx point. Once you use this feature, you
must finish a short or long rest before you can do so again.
At 17th level, you can use this feature three times,
regaining all uses when you finish a short or long rest.

Curse Caster
At 13th level, you can use an action and spend 3 jinx
points to cast the bestow curse spell. Charisma is your
spellcasting ability for this spell.


Misfortunes
The misfortunes are presented in alphabetical order.
Curse of the Befuddled. As an action you can
spend 2 jinx points, and the creature marked by your
evil eye is charmed for 10 minutes. When you do, the
creature is no longer marked by your evil eye, and the
charmed condition ends early if you or your allies deal
damage to the creature or cause it to make a saving
throw. After the 10 minutes have elapsed, the creature
knows you used magic to influence its mood and
disposition towards you.
Curse of the Clumsy. When a creature marked by
your evil eye moves 5 feet or more, you can use your
reaction and spend 3 jinx points to cause the creature to
fall prone and have its movement speed reduced to 0
until the end of the turn. When you do, the creature is no
longer marked by your evil eye.
Curse of the Debilitated. When a creature marked
by your evil eye takes damage, you can use your reaction
and spend 1 jinx point to roll 1d12. The creature takes
necrotic damage and reduces its maximum hit points
equal to the result.
Curse of the Doomed. After you miss with a
weapon attack against a creature marked by your evil
eye, you can use your reaction and spend 1 jinx point to
make an additional weapon attack against the creature as
part of the same action.
Curse of the Fearful. As an action you can spend
2 jinx points, and the creature marked by your evil eye
is frightened for 1 minute. When you do, the creature
is no longer marked by your evil eye, and it can make
a Wisdom saving throw at the end of each of its turns,
ending this misfortune early on a success.
Curse of the Inept. After a creature marked by
your evil eye makes an ability check or attack roll, but
before the DM declares whether or not it is successful,
you can use your reaction and spend 1 jinx point to make
the creature reroll and use the lower result.
Curse of the Insensate. As an action you can
spend 3 jinx points, and the creature marked by your evil
eye is blinded and deafened for 1 minute. When you do,
the creature is no longer marked by your evil eye, and it
can make a Constitution saving throw at the end of each
of its turns, ending this misfortune early on a success.
Curse of the Maimed. When you hit a creature
marked by your evil eye with a weapon attack, and the
die result was 18 or 19, you can use your reaction and
spend 2 jinx points to turn the hit into a critical.
Curse of the Marked. As a bonus action on your
turn, you can spend 2 jinx points to enhance the effects of
your evil eye on a creature you have marked by it. When
you do, the duration increases to 24 hours or until you
mark a different creature with your evil eye, whichever
comes first. Additionally, while the creature is marked by
your evil eye, you always know the direction and distance
to the creature, provided you are on the same plane.
Curse of the Plagued. When a creature marked
by your evil eye regains hit points, you can use your
reaction and spend 1 jinx point to halve the amount of hit
points regained. When you do, the creature can’t regain
hit points until the start of your next turn.
Curse of the Ruined. After a creature marked by
your evil eye makes a saving throw, but before the DM
declares whether or not it is successful, you can use your
reaction and spend 2 jinx points to make the creature
reroll and use the lower result.
Curse of the Somnolent. As an action, you can
spend 3 jinx points, and the creature marked by your
evil eye becomes drowsy. Roll a number of d10 equal
to your level in this class and add 15 to their total. If
the creature’s current hit points are equal to or less
than the total, it goes unconscious. The target regains
consciousness after 10 minutes, or when it takes damage
or another creature uses its action to rouse it.
Curse of the Unlucky. As a bonus action on your
turn, you can spend 2 jinx points to put a pox on a
creature marked by your evil eye. Whenever the creature
makes an attack roll or saving throw, you roll 1d4 and
subtract the result from their total. This pox ends when
the creature is no longer marked by your evil eye.